Translate to english (#15)
geut/dat-workshop: problems/en/04/README.md

# 4 - It's all about streams 

## Quick introduction to streams

> Well, if you have written even a small node.js app, chances are, that you have used [streams](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html) somewhere in the road, being aware of it or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Well, if you have written even a small node.js app, chances are, that you have used [streams](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html) somewhere along the road, being aware of it or not.
```

In fact, `streams` are part of the node.js core. Every _request_ or _response_ from a server, every `console.log` or filesystem operation are using streams in one way or another. :boom:

We can picture a stream as an interface for a data _flow_ `a---b---c` which can change over _time_ and where data flows from a _source_ to a _destination_. 

> For example, using `streams` we can read a file by _chunks_ making use of a `ReadableStream`, apply some kind of _transformation_ with a `TransformStream` and finally, write every _chunk_ of data into a specific destination using a `WritableStream`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, using `streams` we can read a file by _chunks_ making use of a `ReadableStream`, apply some kind of _transformation_ with a `TransformStream`, and finally write every _chunk_ of data into a specific destination using a `WritableStream`. 
```

> Some `streams` operate in a single way, like a `ReadableStream` which only _reads_ from a _source_ and pass the data to the next stream:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some `streams` operate in a single way, like a `ReadableStream` which only _read_ from a _source_ and pass the data to the next stream:
```

```
ReadableStream ---> ( DuplexStream | TransformStream ) ---> WriteableStream
```

> Other type of `streams` can operate in bi-directional manner, ie, can perform _reads_ and _writs_. This `streams` are known as `DuplexStream`. One example is the well known [Socket](https://nodejs.org/api/net.html#net_new_net_socket_options).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other types of `streams` can operate in a bi-directional manner, ie, can perform _reads_ and _writes_. These `streams` are known as `DuplexStreams`. One example is the well known [Socket](https://nodejs.org/api/net.html#net_new_net_socket_options).
```

> !> It is important to have in mind that this kind of _interfaces_ exists only to define a common, scalabel and efficient way to communicate data. `streams` help us to abstract the source and destination. It does not matter if we are reading or writing from/to a file or if it is the net. `streams` **speaks a unique language** and this allows us to **combine them** the way we needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!> It is important to have in mind that this kind of _interfaces_ exists only to define a scalable and efficient way to communicate data. `streams` help us to abstract the source and destination. It does not matter if we are reading or writing from/to a file or if it is the net. `streams` **speaks a unique language** and this allows us to **combine them** the way we needed.
```

Reviewer 2: I will go through problems 1-4 and add improvements, there are many to make.

> :link: If you want to keep on learning about streams, we recommend you the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:link: If you want to keep on learning about streams, we recommend you read the 
```

[stream-handbook](https://github.com/substack/stream-handbook).

## Streams in Hypercore

On the inside, `hypercore` uses streams to work.

### Reading the logs 

We can read our `feed` using `feed.createReadStream` and display that info on the console using `process.stdout`:

```javascript
feed.createReadStream().pipe(process.stdout)
```

> As you can see, we are using the `pipe` method to _connect_ and define our data flow in our streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, we are using the `pipe` method to _connect_ and define the data flow in our streams.
```

```javascript
// a --> b --> c
// unix like: a | b | c
a.pipe(b).pipe(c)
```

### Replication 

> Ok, let's suppose we have local feed and a remote public key. At some point we want to read data from this other feed, since we have it's PK, we can decrypt them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose we have a local feed which uses the public key of a remote feed. At some point we want to read data from the remote feed. Since they share the same PK, we can decrypt the data of both.
```

> But before decrypt them, we need to fetch and merge them into our local feed. This process is called `replication`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But before decrypting, we should fetch the remote feed data and merge into our local feed. This process is called `replication`.
```

![replicant scene from blade runner](https://media.giphy.com/media/xtpNfxNz7rTSo/giphy.gif)

We want to _replicate_ remote feeds data into our local feed.

> In order to do this, we are going to use streams. Hypercore API has a `feed.replicate()` method which returns a _replication stream_ that reads the remote feed, sync it with the local feed and finally pass the result to the next stream. In other words, it behaves like a `DuplexStream`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to do this, we are going to use streams. Hypercore API has a `feed.replicate()` method which returns a _replication stream_ which reads the remote feed, syncs it with the local feed and finally passes the result to the next stream. In other words, it behaves like a `DuplexStream`.
```

![replicate](images/replicate.png)

> ### Sync 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Synchronization 
```

> With `replicate()` we can combine the _remote feed_ with our _local feed_ but we need to be aware of out of date data in our _remote feed_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `replicate()` we can combine the _remote feed_ with our _local feed_ but we also need to be aware that the _remote feed_ may be outdated.
```

!> Eventually, all the peers should have the same (up to date) data.

If we see the conection between two peers as a bi-directional connection, we can do the following:
```javascript
//                (1)                      (2)
remoteFeed.pipe(localFeed.replicate()).pipe(remoteFeed)
```
1. First, data is received from the remote feed and replicated into our local feed.

> 2. Once our feed is updated, data is sent to the remote feed. This is made to ensure consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Once our feed is updated, data is sent to the remote feed. This is to ensure consistency.
```

3. Finally, both feeds have the same data.

## Exercise 

We are going to simulate reading messages from another peer. To do that we need to:

> 1. Sync local feed with remote one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sync a local feed with a remote one.
```

2. Once sync is done, read data from our local feed and push each message into an array.
3. When we finish reading our feed, we need to return the messages list.

## Test

```
$ npm test ./04
```

## Tips

### 1 - Pump

> By design, if we have streams connected by `.pipe` and one of them fails, the rest keep working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By design of Node, if we have streams connected by `.pipe` and one of them is destroyed, the rest keep working.
```

This can lead to multiple error conditions. We want to destroy all the streams if one fails. That's why we are going to use 
[pump](/pump) instead of `.pipe`.

> !> As an extra feature, with `pump` we can pass a function to the last argument. This function will be executed when all the streams finish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!> As an extra feature, with `pump` we can pass a function as the last argument. This function will be executed when all the streams finish.
```

```javascript
a.pipe(b).pipe(c)

// becomes

pump(a, b, c, err => {
  console.log('all streams have finished')
})
```

### 2 - Reading/Writing data 

> A `WritableStream` can iterate through all the _chunks_ of data flowing in our streams and we can write them wherever we want, eg: filesystem, network, memory, etc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a `WritableStream` we can iterate through all the _chunks_ of data flowing in our streams and then we can write them wherever we want, eg: filesystem, network, memory, etc. 
```

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't add 'then' because it sounds like first the iteration happens, and then the writing happens, when in reality the writing is happening during the iteration.

> We have made a special function: `forEachChunk`, which can be seen as a little helper to write data (and of course, it is a `WritableStream`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knowing this, we can define a WritableStream which iterates over _chunks_ in a similar way to a `[] .forEach` and save them to any structure (a `Map` for example) that is required.
We have made a special function: `forEachChunk` that we recommend you research. It can be seen as a little helper to write data to achive your goal (and of course, it is a `WritableStream`)
```
